Hidden friends (#204)
hsf-training/cpluspluscourse: talk/objectorientation/adl.tex

    \end{columns}
  \end{block}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}[fragile]
  \frametitlecpp[98]{ADL and Hidden Friends}
  \begin{block}{Hidden friend declarations participate in ADL}
    \begin{itemize}

>       \item Friends defined in class scope are ``hidden friends''

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      \item Friend functions defined in class scope are ``hidden friends''
```

>       \item They are \emph{not} class members (no access to \mintinline{cpp}{this})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      \item They are \emph{not} member functions (no access to \mintinline{cpp}{this})
```

      \item They participate in ADL, e.g.\ \mintinline{cpp}{std::cout << complex}
    \end{itemize}
  \end{block}

>   \begin{exampleblock}{Ostream operator as hidden friend}

Reviewer: Can you please try to make the title more precise? You could also mean `operator>>` here. Maybe:
```suggestion
  \begin{exampleblock}{operator<< as hidden friend}
```
`operator<<` is sometimes also called the "put operator".

>     \begin{cppcode*}{gobble=2,linenos=false}

Reviewer: What's wrong with line numbers here? I like them, so I can refer to them when talking.

Author: The stuff didn't fit on the slide. I'll try again.

>       class Complex {
>         float m_real, m_imag; // + Complex(float, float) ...
>         friend
>         std::ostream & operator<<(std::ostream & os,
>                                   Complex const & c) {
>           return os << c.m_real << " + " << c.m_imag << "i";
>         }
>       };
>       std::cout << Complex(2.f, 3.f); // Prints 2 + 3i

Reviewer: You could make it an aggregate :)
```suggestion
      struct Complex {
        float m_real, m_imag;
        friend
        std::ostream & operator<<(std::ostream & os,
                                  Complex const & c) {
          return os << c.m_real << " + " << c.m_imag << "i";
        }
      };
      std::cout << Complex{2.f, 3.f}; // Prints 2 + 3i
```
Feel free to ignore this one.

Author: I know. But if I do, I don't need to be a friend. 😉

One thing about the `{ }`. I believe that we're not at `{ }` yet. However, these days, we actually want the `{ }`, so should we use them as much as makes sense even before we explain the details?

Reviewer: > I know. But if I do, I don't need to be a friend.

Right. Ignore my comment then :)

> One thing about the { }. I believe that we're not at { } yet. However, these days, we actually want the { }, so should we use them as much as makes sense even before we explain the details?

Yes, I would use them.
